overview.rst, before:

.. cssclass:: topic
.. role:: heading

:heading:`Overview`
===================

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

What is Gauge
-------------

Gauge is a free and open source test automation framework. Gauge makes test automation a
natural part of the software development cycle by removing any hurdle that comes in the way of
writing and maintaining acceptance tests

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

Why Gauge
---------

The communication breakdowns between Developers and Business Stakeholders is a common risk
of software development. Gauge is an advanced automation tool that allows requirements to be
written in a way that will be understood by all roles in a project and help bridge the gap.

Some of the key features of Gauge that make it stand unique include:

.. cssclass:: key-features

* A rich markup based on markdown
* Simple, Flexible and Rich Syntax
* Business Language Tests: Supports the concept of executable documentation
* Consistent Cross Platform/Language Support for writing test code. Currently supported languages
* Open Source,so it could be shared freely and improved by others as well.
* A modular architecture with Plugins support
* Extensible through Plugins and Hackable.
* Supports External Data Sources
* Helps you create Maintainable and Understandable test suites.
* IDE Support

Commit message:

Added description and keywords tag for following pages #244
- Docs Home
- Overview
- Installing gauge
- Create a test project

overview.rst, after:

.. meta::
  :description: Gauge is a free and open source test automation framework. Gauge makes test automation a natural part of the software development cycle by removing any hurdle that comes in the way of writing and maintaining acceptance tests...
  :keywords: gauge overview testing automation

.. cssclass:: topic
.. role:: heading

:heading:`Overview`
===================

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

What is Gauge
-------------

Gauge is a free and open source test automation framework. Gauge makes test automation a
natural part of the software development cycle by removing any hurdle that comes in the way of
writing and maintaining acceptance tests

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

Why Gauge
---------

The communication breakdowns between Developers and Business Stakeholders is a common risk
of software development. Gauge is an advanced automation tool that allows requirements to be
written in a way that will be understood by all roles in a project and help bridge the gap.

Some of the key features of Gauge that make it stand unique include:

.. cssclass:: key-features

* A rich markup based on markdown
* Simple, Flexible and Rich Syntax
* Business Language Tests: Supports the concept of executable documentation
* Consistent Cross Platform/Language Support for writing test code. Currently supported languages
* Open Source,so it could be shared freely and improved by others as well.
* A modular architecture with Plugins support
* Extensible through Plugins and Hackable.
* Supports External Data Sources
* Helps you create Maintainable and Understandable test suites.
* IDE Support
