plugin.rst, before:

.. cssclass:: topic
.. role:: heading

:heading:`Using Plugins`
========================
.. include:: change_filter.rst

| This page provides information about different types of plugins supported by Gauge and plugin installation and uninstallation. Plugins help you to use additional features of Gauge.
| For information about installing Gauge on your system, see :ref:`install_gauge`.

.. _install_plugins:

Install Plugins
------------------
To install a plugin and add the plugin to a Gauge project, use the following command from within the project directory:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install javascript

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp

If the plugin is already installed, Gauge just adds the plugin to the project.

.. note::

    The html-report and screenshot plugins are installed automatically on the first run.

Install a specific plugin version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install a specific version of a plugin, use the ``--version`` flag on your command line:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install js --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp --version <plugin_version>

Install plugins offline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also install a plugin from a zip file instead of downloading from the plugin repository by using the following command:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install js --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

You can download the latest version of a plugin from the ``Releases`` section of the plugin's GitHub repository. See the `plugin list <https://gauge.org/plugins/>`_ to find the Gauge repositories.

Customize plugin install location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content windows

    By default, the plugins are stored at ``%APPDATA%\gauge\plugins`` in Windows.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content macos

    By default the plugins are stored at ``~/.gauge/plugins`` in Mac OS X and Linux systems.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content linux

    By default the plugins are stored at ``~/.gauge/plugins`` in Linux systems.

You can also install the plugins at different locations.

1. To install plugins at a different location, set ``GAUGE_HOME`` environment variable to the custom location. 
2. | Run the ``plugin install`` command. 
   | The plugin is installed at the ``GAUGE_HOME`` custom location.

For troubleshooting information during plugin installation, see :ref:`Troubleshooting plugin installation <troubleshoot_plugin_installation>`.

Update Plugins
----------------

You can update a plugin by using the ``gauge update`` command. This command downloads the latest compatible plugin from the `Gauge plugin repository <https://gauge.org/plugins/>`_ .

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update java

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update js

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update python

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update ruby

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update csharp

.. note::
    Every Gauge plugin when published has metadata indicating the ``min`` and ``max`` version of Gauge that the plugin is compatible with. The ``gauge update`` command is used when installing plugins on a system running a particular gauge version.


- To update a plugin to a specific version, use the ``--version`` flag as follows:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update java --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update js --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update python --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update ruby --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update csharp --version <plugin_version>

- To update all the installed plugins, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

    gauge update --all

.. _plugins-uninstallation:

Uninstall Plugins
--------------------

Uninstall the plugins by using the following command:

.. cssclass:: example

Example:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall java

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall js

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall python

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall ruby

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall csharp

To uninstall a specific version of the plugin, use the
``--version`` flag.

.. cssclass:: example

Example:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall java --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall js --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall python --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall ruby --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall csharp --version <plugin_version>

.. _troubleshoot_plugin_installation:

Troubleshooting Plugin Installation
-----------------------------------

If :ref:`plugin installation <install_plugins>` fails due to a network connection issue, you can manually download the plugin distributable zip and install the plugin by using the following command:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install js -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp -f path_to_zip_file

-  You can find the plugin zip files in the ``Releases`` section of the plugin GitHub repositories. See the `plugin list <https://gauge.org/plugins/>`_ for plugin repository details.

Plugins directory
-----------------

Plugins are installed in the ``.gauge/plugins`` directory in the user's home directory. You can check this directory to manually install or uninstall plugins and also to verify the installed plugins.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content windows

    The plugin installation directory for ``Windows`` operating system is  ``%APPDATA%\.gauge\plugins``

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content macos

    The plugin installation directory for ``Mac OS X`` operating system is  ``~/.gauge/plugins``

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content linux

    The plugin installation directory for ``Linux`` operating system is  ``~/.gauge/plugins``

Types of Plugins
----------------

The different types of plugins currently supported by Gauge are as follows:

.. 1. :ref:`IDE Plugins <ide_plugins>` (As per discussion, IDE plugins are not exactly a type of Gauge plugins. Hence, moved this out of "Types of Plugins" and kept it under a seperate heading)

1. :ref:`Language Runners/Plugins <language_plugins>`
2. :ref:`Reporting Plugins <reporting_plugins>`
3. :ref:`IDE Plugins <ide_plugins>`
4. :ref:`Other Plugins <other_plugins>`

.. _language_plugins:

Language Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Language plugins or language runners enable the users to write the implementation of specifications in a language of the user's choice. When you intitialize a Gauge project, the language plugin is installed by default.

.. _install-language-runner:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp

    To run Gauge projects in the .Net framework, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console
        
        gauge install csharp

    For more information about running and configuring CSharp with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-csharp>`__

    To run Gauge projects in the .Net Core framework, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install dotnet

    For more information about running and configuring .Net with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-dotnet>`__


.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java

    To run Gauge projects with Java, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install java

    For more information about running and configuring Java with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-java>`__

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript

    To run Gauge projects with JavaScript, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install js

    For more information about running and configuring JavaScript with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-js>`__

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python

    For more information about running and configuring Python with Gauge,

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install python

    For more information about running and configuring Python with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-python>`__

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby

    To run Gauge projects with Ruby, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install ruby

    For more information about running and configuring Ruby with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-ruby>`__

.. _reporting_plugins:

Reporting Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reporting plugins generate execution reports in various formats. Depending on the format of the report you need, you can install the appropriate plugin.

HTML-Report
^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install html-report

For more information about HTML report generation plugin for Gauge, see `Gauge GitHub for HTML report generation <https://github.com/getgauge/html-report>`__ .

XML-Report
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    gauge install xml-report

For more information about XML-report generation plugin for Gauge, see `Gauge GitHub for XML report generation <https://github.com/getgauge/xml-report>`__ .

Flash
^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    gauge install flash

For more information about Flash plugin for Gauge, see `Gauge GitHub for Flash <https://github.com/getgauge/Flash>`__ .

.. _ide_plugins:

IDE Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Gauge has plugins for popular IDEs that improve the experience of authoring test specifications. We recommend that you use the VSCode plugin. However, Gauge can be used without a plugin on any editor of your choice.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content vscode

    Gauge projects can be created and run in Visual Studio Code by using the `Gauge extension for Visual Studio Code <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=getgauge.gauge>`__.
    This plugin currently supports Gauge with Java, JavaScript, Ruby, Python, C# (.Net Core), and TypeScript.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content intellij

    Gauge projects can be created and run in IntelliJ IDEA by using the `Gauge plugin for IntelliJ IDEA <https://github.com/getgauge/Intellij-Plugin/blob/master/README.md>`__.
    This plugin supports Gauge with Java only.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content visualstudio

    Gauge projects can be created and run in Visual Studio by using the `Gauge extension for Visual Studio <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-visualstudio/blob/master/README.md>`__.
    This plugin currently supports Gauge with C#.

.. _other_plugins:

Other Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The spectacle plugin generates a readable HTML format of the specifications:

        .. code-block:: console

           gauge install spectacle

        For more information about gauge spectacle, see `Gauge GitHub for Spectacle <https://github.com/getgauge/spectacle>`__

Gauge also supports the dependency management workflow with custom plugins for `Maven <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-maven-plugin>`__ and `Gradle <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-gradle-plugin>`__.

Commit message:

Added description and keywords tag for following pages #244
- configuration
- examples
- plugins

plugin.rst, after:

.. meta::
    :description: This page provides information about different types of plugins supported by Gauge and plugin installation and uninstallation. Plugins help you to use additional features of Gauge.
    :keywords: plugin testing project vscode idea visualstudio automation mac windows linux

.. cssclass:: topic
.. role:: heading

:heading:`Using Plugins`
========================
.. include:: change_filter.rst

| This page provides information about different types of plugins supported by Gauge and plugin installation and uninstallation. Plugins help you to use additional features of Gauge.
| For information about installing Gauge on your system, see :ref:`install_gauge`.

.. _install_plugins:

Install Plugins
------------------
To install a plugin and add the plugin to a Gauge project, use the following command from within the project directory:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install javascript

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp

If the plugin is already installed, Gauge just adds the plugin to the project.

.. note::

    The html-report and screenshot plugins are installed automatically on the first run.

Install a specific plugin version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install a specific version of a plugin, use the ``--version`` flag on your command line:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install js --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp --version <plugin_version>

Install plugins offline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also install a plugin from a zip file instead of downloading from the plugin repository by using the following command:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install js --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp --file ZIP_FILE_PATH

You can download the latest version of a plugin from the ``Releases`` section of the plugin's GitHub repository. See the `plugin list <https://gauge.org/plugins/>`_ to find the Gauge repositories.

Customize plugin install location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content windows

    By default, the plugins are stored at ``%APPDATA%\gauge\plugins`` in Windows.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content macos

    By default the plugins are stored at ``~/.gauge/plugins`` in Mac OS X and Linux systems.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content linux

    By default the plugins are stored at ``~/.gauge/plugins`` in Linux systems.

You can also install the plugins at different locations.

1. To install plugins at a different location, set ``GAUGE_HOME`` environment variable to the custom location. 
2. | Run the ``plugin install`` command. 
   | The plugin is installed at the ``GAUGE_HOME`` custom location.

For troubleshooting information during plugin installation, see :ref:`Troubleshooting plugin installation <troubleshoot_plugin_installation>`.

Update Plugins
----------------

You can update a plugin by using the ``gauge update`` command. This command downloads the latest compatible plugin from the `Gauge plugin repository <https://gauge.org/plugins/>`_ .

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update java

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update js

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update python

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update ruby

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update csharp

.. note::
    Every Gauge plugin when published has metadata indicating the ``min`` and ``max`` version of Gauge that the plugin is compatible with. The ``gauge update`` command is used when installing plugins on a system running a particular gauge version.


- To update a plugin to a specific version, use the ``--version`` flag as follows:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update java --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update js --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update python --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update ruby --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge update csharp --version <plugin_version>

- To update all the installed plugins, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

    gauge update --all

.. _plugins-uninstallation:

Uninstall Plugins
--------------------

Uninstall the plugins by using the following command:

.. cssclass:: example

Example:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall java

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall js

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall python

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall ruby

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall csharp

To uninstall a specific version of the plugin, use the
``--version`` flag.

.. cssclass:: example

Example:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall java --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall js --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall python --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall ruby --version <plugin_version>

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge uninstall csharp --version <plugin_version>

.. _troubleshoot_plugin_installation:

Troubleshooting Plugin Installation
-----------------------------------

If :ref:`plugin installation <install_plugins>` fails due to a network connection issue, you can manually download the plugin distributable zip and install the plugin by using the following command:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install java -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install js -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install python -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install ruby -f path_to_zip_file

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install csharp -f path_to_zip_file

-  You can find the plugin zip files in the ``Releases`` section of the plugin GitHub repositories. See the `plugin list <https://gauge.org/plugins/>`_ for plugin repository details.

Plugins directory
-----------------

Plugins are installed in the ``.gauge/plugins`` directory in the user's home directory. You can check this directory to manually install or uninstall plugins and also to verify the installed plugins.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content windows

    The plugin installation directory for ``Windows`` operating system is  ``%APPDATA%\.gauge\plugins``

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content macos

    The plugin installation directory for ``Mac OS X`` operating system is  ``~/.gauge/plugins``

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content linux

    The plugin installation directory for ``Linux`` operating system is  ``~/.gauge/plugins``

Types of Plugins
----------------

The different types of plugins currently supported by Gauge are as follows:

.. 1. :ref:`IDE Plugins <ide_plugins>` (As per discussion, IDE plugins are not exactly a type of Gauge plugins. Hence, moved this out of "Types of Plugins" and kept it under a seperate heading)

1. :ref:`Language Runners/Plugins <language_plugins>`
2. :ref:`Reporting Plugins <reporting_plugins>`
3. :ref:`IDE Plugins <ide_plugins>`
4. :ref:`Other Plugins <other_plugins>`

.. _language_plugins:

Language Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Language plugins or language runners enable the users to write the implementation of specifications in a language of the user's choice. When you intitialize a Gauge project, the language plugin is installed by default.

.. _install-language-runner:

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content csharp

    To run Gauge projects in the .Net framework, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console
        
        gauge install csharp

    For more information about running and configuring CSharp with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-csharp>`__

    To run Gauge projects in the .Net Core framework, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install dotnet

    For more information about running and configuring .Net with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-dotnet>`__


.. cssclass:: dynamic-content java

    To run Gauge projects with Java, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install java

    For more information about running and configuring Java with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-java>`__

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content javascript

    To run Gauge projects with JavaScript, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install js

    For more information about running and configuring JavaScript with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-js>`__

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content python

    For more information about running and configuring Python with Gauge,

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install python

    For more information about running and configuring Python with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-python>`__

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content ruby

    To run Gauge projects with Ruby, use the following command:

    .. code-block:: console

        gauge install ruby

    For more information about running and configuring Ruby with Gauge, read `the Gauge GitHub repository <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-ruby>`__

.. _reporting_plugins:

Reporting Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reporting plugins generate execution reports in various formats. Depending on the format of the report you need, you can install the appropriate plugin.

HTML-Report
^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. code-block:: console

    gauge install html-report

For more information about HTML report generation plugin for Gauge, see `Gauge GitHub for HTML report generation <https://github.com/getgauge/html-report>`__ .

XML-Report
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    gauge install xml-report

For more information about XML-report generation plugin for Gauge, see `Gauge GitHub for XML report generation <https://github.com/getgauge/xml-report>`__ .

Flash
^^^^^

.. code-block:: console

    gauge install flash

For more information about Flash plugin for Gauge, see `Gauge GitHub for Flash <https://github.com/getgauge/Flash>`__ .

.. _ide_plugins:

IDE Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Gauge has plugins for popular IDEs that improve the experience of authoring test specifications. We recommend that you use the VSCode plugin. However, Gauge can be used without a plugin on any editor of your choice.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content vscode

    Gauge projects can be created and run in Visual Studio Code by using the `Gauge extension for Visual Studio Code <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=getgauge.gauge>`__.
    This plugin currently supports Gauge with Java, JavaScript, Ruby, Python, C# (.Net Core), and TypeScript.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content intellij

    Gauge projects can be created and run in IntelliJ IDEA by using the `Gauge plugin for IntelliJ IDEA <https://github.com/getgauge/Intellij-Plugin/blob/master/README.md>`__.
    This plugin supports Gauge with Java only.

.. cssclass:: dynamic-content visualstudio

    Gauge projects can be created and run in Visual Studio by using the `Gauge extension for Visual Studio <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-visualstudio/blob/master/README.md>`__.
    This plugin currently supports Gauge with C#.

.. _other_plugins:

Other Plugins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The spectacle plugin generates a readable HTML format of the specifications:

        .. code-block:: console

           gauge install spectacle

        For more information about gauge spectacle, see `Gauge GitHub for Spectacle <https://github.com/getgauge/spectacle>`__

Gauge also supports the dependency management workflow with custom plugins for `Maven <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-maven-plugin>`__ and `Gradle <https://github.com/getgauge/gauge-gradle-plugin>`__.
