getting_started/create-test-project.rst, before:

====================================
Create a Testing project using Gauge
====================================

.. include:: change_filter.rst

.. cssclass:: windows-javascript-vscode display-content hidden

.. container::

    | Gauge projects can be created and executed in Visual studio code using the Gauge extension for VSCode.
    | In this guide, you'll be able to learn how to add a sample Javascript testing project in VSCode

    .. cssclass:: sub-heading
    Step 1

    Once the extension is installed, press Ctrl + shift + p to display the editor's command pallete, and then execute the following command to create a new testing project in Gauge:

    .. code-block:: text

        Gauge: Create new Gauge Project

    .. cssclass:: sub-heading
    Step 2

    Select the JS template to create the sample testing project

    .. cssclass:: sub-heading
    Step 3

    Choose a location to create a new folder to create a new project

    .. cssclass:: sub-heading
    Step 4

    Give a name to your project

    | After you've successfully created a gauge project, you'll be able to see a sample project with an example specification.

----------------------------------
Next Step: Running a Specification
----------------------------------
Now that you have successfully added/initialized a new Gauge testing projec, we can look at how to run a specification by using the sample spec in the test folder

    Note:
    To learn more about how to test specifications in Gauge work and other gauge terminologies please look at our Overview Section.

Commit message:

Updated structure of content and added styling

getting_started/create-test-project.rst, after:

.. cssclass:: topic
Create a Testing project using Gauge
====================================

.. include:: change_filter.rst

.. cssclass:: windows-javascript-vscode display-content hidden
Creating a Testing Project in VS Code
-------------------------------------
Gauge projects can be created and executed in Visual studio code using the Gauge extension for VSCode.

In this guide, you'll be able to learn how to add a sample Javascript testing project in VSCode

.. cssclass:: sub-heading
Step 1
++++++

Once the extension is installed, press Ctrl + shift + p to display the editor's command pallete, and then execute the following command to create a new testing project in Gauge:

.. code-block:: text

    Gauge: Create new Gauge Project

.. cssclass:: sub-heading
Step 2
++++++

Select the JS template to create the sample testing project

.. cssclass:: sub-heading
Step 3
++++++

Choose a location to create a new folder to create a new project

.. cssclass:: sub-heading
Step 4
++++++

Give a name to your project

| After you've successfully created a gauge project, you'll be able to see a sample project with an example specification.

.. Note:: The file structure may vary depending on the language of your project. For this example, we have created a Javascript project.

Next Step: Running a Specification
----------------------------------
Now that you have successfully added/initialized a new Gauge testing projec, we can look at how to run a specification by using the sample spec in the test folder

.. Note:: To learn more about how to test specifications in Gauge work and other gauge terminologies please look at our Overview Section.
