getting_started/installing-gauge.rst, before:

.. cssclass:: topic
.. role:: heading

:heading:`Get Started`
======================

This getting started guide walks you through the core features of Gauge. You'll be able to install
Gauge and learn how to create a test automation project using Gauge.

If you are new to Gauge, check out the `Overview <../overview.html>`__ section in the docs for a quick introduction to the
most important concepts and features of the tool.

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

Choose your Setup to Install Gauge
----------------------------------

.. cssclass:: question-circle

Select your setup to see the instructions for installing gauge.


.. _installation-selection:
.. container::

   .. installationselections::
      :setup-section: installation

      .. installationselection::
         :class: setup-selection
         :type: os
         :title: 1. Select your OS

         Linux
         MacOS
         Windows

      .. installationselection::
         :class: setup-selection
         :type: language
         :title: 2. Select a Language

         C#
         Java
         JavaScript
         Python
         Ruby

      .. installationselection::
         :class: setup-selection
         :type: ide
         :title: 3. Select an IDE/Editor

         IntelliJ IDEA
         Visual Studio
         Visual Studio Code


.. _installation-instructions:

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

.. _proj-setup-filter-section:
.. container::

   .. container:: applied-filters


      .. container:: applied-filter-header

         Setup

      .. container:: applied-filter

         MacOs

      .. container:: applied-filter

         JavaScript

      .. container:: applied-filter

         Visual Studio Code

.. include:: mac_installation.rst
.. include:: windows_installation.rst
.. include:: linux_installation.rst
.. include:: vscode_installation.rst
.. include:: intellij_installation.rst
.. include:: visualStudio_installation.rst

Next Step:
----------

.. cssclass:: csharp dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a C# testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: java dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a Java testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: javascript dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a JavaScript testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: python dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a Python testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: ruby dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a Ruby testing project using Gauge.



.. container:: page-navigator

   .. container:: navigate-next

      `Create a testing project <create-test-project.html>`__

Commit message:

Added description and keywords tag for following pages #244 (#255)
- Docs Home
- Overview
- Installing gauge
- Create a test project
- running a specification
- view a report
- Write specification
- Run Specification
- configuration
- examples
- plugins
- faqs
- troubleshooting

getting_started/installing-gauge.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: This is a simple guide to install gauge on your system. It guides you to install gauge depending on your os...
   :keywords: install gauge macos linux windows testing automation

.. cssclass:: topic
.. role:: heading

:heading:`Get Started`
======================

This getting started guide walks you through the core features of Gauge. You'll be able to install
Gauge and learn how to create a test automation project using Gauge.

If you are new to Gauge, check out the `Overview <../overview.html>`__ section in the docs for a quick introduction to the
most important concepts and features of the tool.

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

Choose your Setup to Install Gauge
----------------------------------

.. cssclass:: question-circle

Select your setup to see the instructions for installing gauge.


.. _installation-selection:
.. container::

   .. installationselections::
      :setup-section: installation

      .. installationselection::
         :class: setup-selection
         :type: os
         :title: 1. Select your OS

         Linux
         MacOS
         Windows

      .. installationselection::
         :class: setup-selection
         :type: language
         :title: 2. Select a Language

         C#
         Java
         JavaScript
         Python
         Ruby

      .. installationselection::
         :class: setup-selection
         :type: ide
         :title: 3. Select an IDE/Editor

         IntelliJ IDEA
         Visual Studio
         Visual Studio Code


.. _installation-instructions:

.. cssclass:: sub-heading

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

.. _proj-setup-filter-section:
.. container::

   .. container:: applied-filters


      .. container:: applied-filter-header

         Setup

      .. container:: applied-filter

         MacOs

      .. container:: applied-filter

         JavaScript

      .. container:: applied-filter

         Visual Studio Code

.. include:: mac_installation.rst
.. include:: windows_installation.rst
.. include:: linux_installation.rst
.. include:: vscode_installation.rst
.. include:: intellij_installation.rst
.. include:: visualStudio_installation.rst

Next Step:
----------

.. cssclass:: csharp dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a C# testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: java dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a Java testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: javascript dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a JavaScript testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: python dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a Python testing project using Gauge.

.. cssclass:: ruby dynamic-content

   Now that you've installed Gauge, you can go ahead and create a Ruby testing project using Gauge.



.. container:: page-navigator

   .. container:: navigate-next

      `Create a testing project <create-test-project.html>`__
