getting_started/view-a-report.rst, before:

.. role:: vscode
.. cssclass:: topic

.. cssclass:: vscode dynamic-content

:vscode:`Viewing Reports from VS Code`
======================================

.. include:: ../change_filter.rst

Once the specifications are run you will get immediate feedback in the output screen of VS Code.

Once you've run the sample spec, you can view the HTML report of the tests run by following either of the steps below:

Open the html report by clicking on the view summary link in VS Code

.. figure:: ../images/VSCode_report_link.png
    :alt: VSCode execution report link

OR

In the editor's command pallete type Gauge: Show Last Run Report to view the report in the browser

.. figure:: ../images/VSCode_show_last_run_report.png
    :alt: VSCode show last run report command

Here's what a Gauge report looks like.

.. figure:: ../images/HTML_report.png
    :alt: HTML report

.. container:: page-navigator

    .. container:: navigate-previous

        `Running a Specification <running-a-specification.html>`__

Commit message:

Adding viewing reports section from intellij

getting_started/view-a-report.rst, after:

.. role:: vscode
.. role:: intellij
.. cssclass:: topic

Viewing Reports
===============

.. include:: ../change_filter.rst

.. cssclass:: vscode dynamic-content

:vscode:`Viewing Reports from VS Code`
======================================

Once the specifications are run you will get immediate feedback in the output screen of VS Code.

Once you've run the sample spec, you can view the HTML report of the tests run by following either of the steps below:

Open the html report by clicking on the view summary link in VS Code

.. figure:: ../images/VSCode_report_link.png
    :alt: VSCode execution report link

OR

In the editor's command pallete type Gauge: Show Last Run Report to view the report in the browser

.. figure:: ../images/VSCode_show_last_run_report.png
    :alt: VSCode show last run report command

Here's what a Gauge report looks like.

.. figure:: ../images/HTML_report.png
    :alt: HTML report

.. container:: page-navigator

    .. container:: navigate-previous

        `Running a Specification <running-a-specification.html>`__

.. cssclass:: intellij dynamic-content

:intellij:`Viewing Reports from Intellij IDEA`
==============================================

Once the specifications are run you will get immediate feedback in the output screen of Intellij.

Once you've run the sample spec, you can view the HTML report of the tests run by opening the :highlighted-syntax:`index.html` file available in :highlighted-syntax:`$PROJECT_ROOT/reports/html-report/index.html`

Here's what a Gauge report looks like.

.. figure:: ../images/HTML_report.png
    :alt: HTML report

.. container:: page-navigator

    .. container:: navigate-previous

        `Running a Specification <running-a-specification.html>`__
