howto/ci_cd/azure.rst, before:

Tutorial: Integrating Gauge with Azure
======================================

`Azure Pipelines <https://dev.azure.com/>`__ Build, test, and deploy with CI/CD that works with any language,
 platform, and cloud. Connect to GitHub or any other Git provider and deploy continuously.

-  Login to Azure DevOps with GitHub/Microsoft account.
-  Create a new project and a build pipeline

    .. image:: images/azure_new_pipeline.png

- Select a repository which you want to build in azure pipeline

    .. image:: images/azure_github_repo.png

Creating tasks
--------------

-  Create a ``azure-pipelines.yml`` file in your project root.
-  Add these lines in ``azure-pipelines.yml`` according to the platform on which
   you want to build.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: macOS

        trigger:
        - master

        pool:
            vmImage: 'macOS-10.13'

        steps:
        -   script: |
                echo installing gauge
                brew install gauge
            displayName: 'install gauge'

        -   script: |
                echo starting gauge test
                gauge run specs
            displayName: 'gauge test'

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Linux

        trigger:
        -   master

        pool:
            vmImage: 'ubuntu-16.04'

        steps:
        -   script: |
                echo installing gauge
                sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 023EDB0B
                echo deb https://dl.bintray.com/gauge/gauge-deb stable main | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
                sudo apt-get update
                sudo apt-get install gauge
            displayName: 'install gauge'

        -   script: |
                echo starting gauge test
                gauge run specs
            displayName: 'gauge test'´

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Windows

    pool:
        vmImage: 'vs2017-win2016'

    steps:
    -   task: NodeTool@0
        inputs:
            versionSpec: '10.x'

    -   powershell: |
            echo installing gauge
            npm install -g @getgauge/cli
        displayName: 'install gauge'

    -   powershell: |
            echo starting gauge test
            gauge run specs
        displayName: 'gauge test'



* If you want to run only a subset of specs, you can use :ref: `tagged_execution`.
  Example: add ``script: gauge run --tags "tag1 & tag2" specs`` in your ``azure-pipelines.yml``.

* Adding a flag ``-p`` runs them using :ref: `parallel_execution`.
  Example: ``script: gauge run -p specs`` in your ``azure-pipelines.yml``.

* Run against specific :ref: `environments` using the ``--env`` flag.

* See the `Manpage <https://manpage.gauge.org>` __ for list of all the flags that can be used.


Reports
-------

-  Goto your pipeline and see the console output.

   .. figure:: images/azure_console_output.png
      :alt: console output

-  Gauge generates ``html-report`` after execution whose location can be
   set by environment variable ``gauge_reports_dir``. This defaults to
   ``reports`` directory in the Gauge project.

-  You can upload Gauge execution reports to your choice of hosted web
   server. Read
   `more <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/>`__ for
   uploading artifacts.

Commit message:

Added meta description for the following pages #244
- Integrating Gauge with Azure
- Integrating Gauge with Circle CI
- Integrating Gauge with Docker
- Integrating Gauge with GoCD
- Integrating Gauge with Jenkins
- Integrating Gauge with TeamCity
- Integrating Gauge with Travis

howto/ci_cd/azure.rst, after:

.. meta::
    :description: This is tutorial of how to integrate Gauge with Azure
    :keywords: testing gauge azure automation

Tutorial: Integrating Gauge with Azure
======================================

`Azure Pipelines <https://dev.azure.com/>`__ Build, test, and deploy with CI/CD that works with any language,
 platform, and cloud. Connect to GitHub or any other Git provider and deploy continuously.

-  Login to Azure DevOps with GitHub/Microsoft account.
-  Create a new project and a build pipeline

    .. image:: images/azure_new_pipeline.png

- Select a repository which you want to build in azure pipeline

    .. image:: images/azure_github_repo.png

Creating tasks
--------------

-  Create a ``azure-pipelines.yml`` file in your project root.
-  Add these lines in ``azure-pipelines.yml`` according to the platform on which
   you want to build.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :caption: macOS

        trigger:
        - master

        pool:
            vmImage: 'macOS-10.13'

        steps:
        -   script: |
                echo installing gauge
                brew install gauge
            displayName: 'install gauge'

        -   script: |
                echo starting gauge test
                gauge run specs
            displayName: 'gauge test'

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Linux

        trigger:
        -   master

        pool:
            vmImage: 'ubuntu-16.04'

        steps:
        -   script: |
                echo installing gauge
                sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 023EDB0B
                echo deb https://dl.bintray.com/gauge/gauge-deb stable main | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
                sudo apt-get update
                sudo apt-get install gauge
            displayName: 'install gauge'

        -   script: |
                echo starting gauge test
                gauge run specs
            displayName: 'gauge test'´

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Windows

    pool:
        vmImage: 'vs2017-win2016'

    steps:
    -   task: NodeTool@0
        inputs:
            versionSpec: '10.x'

    -   powershell: |
            echo installing gauge
            npm install -g @getgauge/cli
        displayName: 'install gauge'

    -   powershell: |
            echo starting gauge test
            gauge run specs
        displayName: 'gauge test'



* If you want to run only a subset of specs, you can use :ref: `tagged_execution`.
  Example: add ``script: gauge run --tags "tag1 & tag2" specs`` in your ``azure-pipelines.yml``.

* Adding a flag ``-p`` runs them using :ref: `parallel_execution`.
  Example: ``script: gauge run -p specs`` in your ``azure-pipelines.yml``.

* Run against specific :ref: `environments` using the ``--env`` flag.

* See the `Manpage <https://manpage.gauge.org>` __ for list of all the flags that can be used.


Reports
-------

-  Goto your pipeline and see the console output.

   .. figure:: images/azure_console_output.png
      :alt: console output

-  Gauge generates ``html-report`` after execution whose location can be
   set by environment variable ``gauge_reports_dir``. This defaults to
   ``reports`` directory in the Gauge project.

-  You can upload Gauge execution reports to your choice of hosted web
   server. Read
   `more <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/>`__ for
   uploading artifacts.
