howto/ci_cd/circle.rst, before:

Tutorial: Integrating Gauge with CircleCI
=========================================

`CircleCI <https://circleci.com/>`__ is a cloud hosted, continuous integration and delivery
platform.

Configure gauge as a dependency in ``circle.yml`` and add  `xml report <https://docs.gauge.org/reports.html?#installation>`__
plugin to your gauge project.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: Linux

  dependencies:
  pre:
    - sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 023EDB0B
    - echo deb https://dl.bintray.com/gauge/gauge-deb stable main | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list    
    - sudo apt-get update
    - sudo apt-get install gauge

    
Running tests and publishing reports
------------------------------------

Configure ``circle.yml`` to run tests in the ``specs`` folder and publish junit results.

.. code-block:: yaml

  test:
    post:
      - gauge install
      - gauge run specs
      - mkdir -p $CIRCLE_TEST_REPORTS/junit/
      - cp ./reports/xml-report/result.xml $CIRCLE_TEST_REPORTS/junit/

Commit message:

Added meta description for the following pages #244
- Integrating Gauge with Azure
- Integrating Gauge with Circle CI
- Integrating Gauge with Docker
- Integrating Gauge with GoCD
- Integrating Gauge with Jenkins
- Integrating Gauge with TeamCity
- Integrating Gauge with Travis

howto/ci_cd/circle.rst, after:

.. meta::
    :description: This is tutorial of how to integrate Gauge with CircleCI
    :keywords: testing gauge circleci automation

Tutorial: Integrating Gauge with CircleCI
=========================================

`CircleCI <https://circleci.com/>`__ is a cloud hosted, continuous integration and delivery
platform.

Configure gauge as a dependency in ``circle.yml`` and add  `xml report <https://docs.gauge.org/reports.html?#installation>`__
plugin to your gauge project.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: Linux

  dependencies:
  pre:
    - sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 023EDB0B
    - echo deb https://dl.bintray.com/gauge/gauge-deb stable main | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list    
    - sudo apt-get update
    - sudo apt-get install gauge

    
Running tests and publishing reports
------------------------------------

Configure ``circle.yml`` to run tests in the ``specs`` folder and publish junit results.

.. code-block:: yaml

  test:
    post:
      - gauge install
      - gauge run specs
      - mkdir -p $CIRCLE_TEST_REPORTS/junit/
      - cp ./reports/xml-report/result.xml $CIRCLE_TEST_REPORTS/junit/
