howto/ci_cd/docker.rst, before:

Gauge can be easily installed on `Docker <https://www.docker.com/what-docker>`__ container.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/>`__

Docker image for Gauge
----------------------

-  Create a ``Dockerfile`` file in your project root.
-  Add these lines in ``Dockerfile`` according to the platform on which
   you want to build.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: DockerFile

    FROM ubuntu

    # Install Java.
    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -q -y \
        openjdk-8-jdk \
        apt-transport-https \
        gnupg2 \
        ca-certificates

    # Install gauge
    RUN apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://ipv4.pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 023EDB0B && \
        echo deb https://dl.bintray.com/gauge/gauge-deb stable main | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list

    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install gauge

    # Install gauge plugins
    RUN gauge install java && \
        gauge install screenshot

    ENV PATH=$HOME/.gauge:$PATH

Run Gauge specs on Docker
-------------------------

- Build the docker image tagged as test
    docker build . -t test

- Mount the docker image with the <project_directory> and run the specs in the container
    docker run -v `pwd`:/<project_directory> -w="/<project_directory>" test gauge run specs

Commit message:

Added meta description for the following pages #244
- Integrating Gauge with Azure
- Integrating Gauge with Circle CI
- Integrating Gauge with Docker
- Integrating Gauge with GoCD
- Integrating Gauge with Jenkins
- Integrating Gauge with TeamCity
- Integrating Gauge with Travis

howto/ci_cd/docker.rst, after:

.. meta::
    :description: This is tutorial of how to install Gauge in Docker
    :keywords: testing gauge docker automation

Gauge can be easily installed on `Docker <https://www.docker.com/what-docker>`__ container.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/>`__

Docker image for Gauge
----------------------

-  Create a ``Dockerfile`` file in your project root.
-  Add these lines in ``Dockerfile`` according to the platform on which
   you want to build.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: DockerFile

    FROM ubuntu

    # Install Java.
    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -q -y \
        openjdk-8-jdk \
        apt-transport-https \
        gnupg2 \
        ca-certificates

    # Install gauge
    RUN apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://ipv4.pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-keys 023EDB0B && \
        echo deb https://dl.bintray.com/gauge/gauge-deb stable main | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list

    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install gauge

    # Install gauge plugins
    RUN gauge install java && \
        gauge install screenshot

    ENV PATH=$HOME/.gauge:$PATH

Run Gauge specs on Docker
-------------------------

- Build the docker image tagged as test
    docker build . -t test

- Mount the docker image with the <project_directory> and run the specs in the container
    docker run -v `pwd`:/<project_directory> -w="/<project_directory>" test gauge run specs
